In this lesson we're going to be looking at.
Yes.
Six.
And what's new data handling.
So in order to understand that what is new we're going to be looking at sets and maps we need to basically
understand what the original problem was with javascript and why this functionality was introduced.
So let's first of all let's create an object so I'm going to call it a data set.
And we know that we can create objects and do object and create.
So this is creating a brand new object and then within here right now we're just going to set it to
null so we're going to create a brand new blank object.
So that's ready to go and we're ready to introduce some information into that object.
So if we want to we could do dataset because now we've created the object and we can give it a value.
So dataset ID can hold a value of zero.
We can also do our data set and we can give it a value of 10 and that's going to be equal to let's do
hello world here
so dataset 10 is equal to Hello World.
So what if you actually want to print out and if you want to check to see if data set I Id actually
exists.
So let's do a quick condition here and we're going to check to see if the test set Id actually exists
and if it does then what console log out
it's there and otherwise let's do else.
And otherwise we can console log out not there.
So what do you think is going to get returned here.
So notice that we've set the value to zero.
And I was going to clean this up a little bit.
So let's try that out in the browser so what do you think is going to get output within the console.
So when we refresh it we see that's not there but we know that we already did set it.
If we get a value of one it's going to be there because 0 when we're checking to see the condition we're
seeing that it actually doesn't exist.
But we do have a value set in it and the value is zero.
So that's one of the problems when we're applying conditions to objects that if we we've got a value
of zero.
Then when they're not if we're checking to see a kippot condition for true or false Boolean value then
we're actually getting false that it's not there.
So that was one of the problems and the other problem is that if we go ahead and we console log out
and let's say for instance we want a console log out that's Hello value.
So we've assigned it a value of 10 and we know that we can't do tests that Daut 10.
So we know that that won't work.
So we always have to keep it within this bracket format.
And we also know that javascript is going to be smart enough to try to do a conversion of that.
So even if we quote around that 10 we should be able to return back the results.
So let's try that out and refresh it.
So we do have quite a bit of room for error and this is why 6 introduced setting up datasets and handling
data in that format as well as mapping.
So let's show you some more examples.
And there's also some other room for error so if we set up a variable so we have a variable A and we're
going to set it to be null and we're going to have a variable b and we're going to set it to be null
and then next let's set up our test set so test set and organise set test set.
So whatever these values so a test set a sonogram taken that test at a value and let's assign some type
of value to it.
So this can be whatever we want and the next if we want to call that back I can actually call that back
using test set
B because those two are actually equivalent.
So it actually doesn't matter which one I try to call back because we're still going to be able to utilize
this and this is another area where there is room for errors and issues with javascript ESX introduced
us to sets.
So let's go out and create our first set.
So test set and we call it test 2 and we define it by a brand new set.
So set is the brand new object that we're going to be creating.
So we created an object called test set and now it's console log data.
So we'll take a closer look and we'll see what's being actually contained within test set to go back
out.
Let's refresh our browser.
So there we go.
So we've got our set completely blank no entries in it as of yet.
In order to add entries in that it's going to be really easy.
So this is in order to add entries we have default methods and that's the default method of ADD.
So we can add in additional values into a set.
So we'll add in one.
Hello world.
Go back and refresh it.
So there it is.
So now we've got entries in here.
We see the length of those entries.
And let's add in some more into here.
So let's go ahead and hello world 1 Hello World 2 and so on so we can add in as many as we like.
Now one thing that I did want to note and one thing that's great about sets is that it doesn't take
any.
It only has unique values that are contained within the set.
So when I refreshed it what do you think is going to happen.
Am I going to have three entries or four entries.
I've added in four on the side.
When we look in the console we've only got a length of three because this one's a duplicate.
So it doesn't actually get added and you can try to add it as many times as you like.
It won't ever get into the set because the set is all unique values.
So what I want you to do now pause the video.
Open up your editor and create a set and then add some content into that set output it into the console.
And don't forget to try to add some duplicates so that you can see that sets are being put to work they're
adding and removing duplicates.
Now there's another thing with insets and we can remove items out of the set or entries out of the set
and that's delete.
So delete lets us remove out entries.
And so now we just need to specify the entry value that we want to delete out.
So if we delete out Hello world go back and refresh we see it's gone.
So even though we tried data twice will have to delete it once because once it's in there it's unique
value.
And when we delete we can select and delete any one.
So the thing what sets they work similar to the way that objects work where we can loop through all
of the content of that.
So so you adapt.
So test set to.
And we're going to do the for each loop and the for each loop allows us to set up a function in here
and pick up the value we'll pick up the key and let's let's loop through here so console log out what
we're getting returned in here.
So we've got our key and space that they're concatenated together and value.
So let me let's see what happens now.
So when I refresh it we see we get all of those values and we see the interesting thing here that the
key and the value are the same because they are we're only setting up value in there.
So the key and the value are the exact same thing with insets.
So keep that in mind.
So go ahead and try that would loop through all of that information that you created earlier and see
how that works and see if you can pull that information out of that that set.
So next thing that we want to do is I want to show you how sets can actually remove duplicates from
an array.
So we struggled with this earlier that one of the exercises earlier we had to remove our duplicates
out of an array.
And we had to loop through all the array items and there was quite a bit of a process I'm going to simply
create an array.
And notice I am adding in some duplicate values and that's on purpose because we actually want to remove
out those duplicates.
So I think I've got at least a few duplicates in there so I'm using numbers so it's just a lot simpler
but could just as well be string values.
So what we want to do now is we want to change my array and remove out all of the duplicate.
So let's Konsole like that my array and we are.
And now let's create a function to remove duplicates and then we'll launch a rate into the function.
So remove Dhoop and we're going to take that argument in.
And that argument essentially is going to be the array and we'll return back all of the content.
So first of all we need to get that content into a set.
So that's where we can do new set.
And we'll take that content.
So not every information that we're setting.
And unfortunately if we're doing it this way we're still returning back a set.
So we're not exactly removing the duplicate.
Let me show you.
And there's one other thing that we're not going to need to add to their just.
I'll show you what it looks like at this point where we're going to pass in the array and we're going
to remove the duplicates.
And there's one other thing that we're going to need to add here.
So we see that we've got a set of 13 and even though it returns it it's not returning back all the entries
it's returning back the entire set.
So it's essentially taking that array removing the duplicate and returning it as a set.
So it's not exactly what we want.
So there's a quick fix to that and the fix to that is adding three dots in front of the new.
And basically what that does is that's going to return the set back as an array.
So all of those three dots.
They transform the returned object into an array.
So now when we take a look at it there is our brand new set with Duplo gets removed.
So I want you to try it for yourself.
So go ahead create an array.
You can use one of the rays we created earlier and create this function to remove duplicates.
So it's very simple it's just a simple function where we're returning.
We're getting the content that's being passed in and we're returning it back as a set.
So go ahead and try that out and get comfortable and familiar with it because having knowledge of these
different ways to handle data is really beneficial when it comes to javascript because we're always
dealing with data everything is both the data and handling that data in more efficient ways is great
for programming and it's really helpful when you're writing out the code as well.
So go ahead and try it for yourself in the next lesson.
We're going to look at more data structures and that's going to be maps.